Hey everyone I’m Justin with AmericanMuscle.com
checking out a great starter mod with the
versatility to expand with your horsepower
needs and your budget, I’m talking about
the C&L cold air intake kit for all 2011 and
up mustang GTs.
That versatility comes from C&Ls unique design
that includes this metal insert allowing you
to run this kit with or without a tune.
So if you are just starting out and don’t
have the money to fork out for a tune right
away, but plan on getting one down the road
this intake is for you.
Whether or not you decide to run a tune this
intake will definitely give you a nice bump
in power and sound by replacing your air box
with everything you see here.
Including a plastic heat shield, intake tube
itself, usable high air flow filter and that
special metal insert.
Now whenever you run a cold air intake kit
more power is the obvious expectation, however
you tend to receive more throttle response
and fuel efficiency as well as my favorite
part: that nice little growl to your engine.
As we mentioned earlier you do not need to
run a tune with this intake from C&L but if
you do want to see maximum gains then you
do want to pair it up with our custom BAMA
tune and remove that insert.
So were going to get a baseline down from
our 2011 first and see what kind of improvement
this kit makes.
So in stock form our automatic 2011 GT just
put down 345 horsepower and 303 ft/lbs of
torque at the rear wheels.
Now let’s get that restrictive factory air
box out of there and install this new intake
from C&L which should only take about an hour
with standard hand tools.
As I mentioned earlier we are going to pair
the C&L intake up with our 93 octane BAMA
tune to really optimize our gains.
This is going to optimize your spark timing,
adjust your variable cam timing; perfect those
air fuel ratios and give you drastically improved
throttle response.
With the automatic guys it’s really going
to improve shift firmness and shift points.
Now with our kit installed and our tune up
loaded let’s turn the rollers one more time
and see what kind of power this kit made on
our GT.
Well we
just finished up our second run with our C&L
intake and BAMA tune installation where we
made 365 horsepower and 338 lb/ft torque,
making for a peak gain of 23 horsepower over
our baseline numbers and gains a 57 horsepower
and 57 ft/lb of torque at the curve.
So even though we ran this intake with the
tune to get some really big gains, you do
have the luxury of bolting this kit up and
running it without a tune and making considerable
more power over your factory air box.
So even if you don’t have a tune yet but
plan on getting on in the future this kit
from C&L has you covered.